README.md, before:

# arxiv-knowledge-repo

## Running the elastic stack locally

The application requires an available elasticsearch and kibana. An easy way to provision this is to use `docker` with `docker-compose` with the provided `docker-compose.yml`. To get started

1. `git clone` the repository
2. Ensure `docker` and `docker-compose` are installed. It is also possible to use `podman` with the respective compose command.
```
➜  arxiv-knowledge-repo git:(main) ✗ docker -v
Docker version 20.10.7, build 20.10.7-0ubuntu5~21.04.2
➜  arxiv-knowledge-repo git:(main) ✗ docker-compose -v
docker-compose version 1.25.0, build unknown
```
3. Run `docker-compose up` from the root directory of the repository. This will provision a three node elastic cluster with kibana. For troubleshooting steps see the [Elastic Getting Started Guide with Docker](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elastic-stack-get-started/current/get-started-docker.html) and the [podman homepage](https://podman.io/)
4. Once provisioned you can use `curl` to verify the cluster is up
```
➜  arxiv-knowledge-repo git:(main) ✗ curl -X GET "localhost:9200/_cat/nodes?v&pretty"
ip         heap.percent ram.percent cpu load_1m load_5m load_15m node.role   master name
172.18.0.5           61          96  10    1.81    2.27     2.38 cdfhilmrstw *      es01
172.18.0.2           22          96  10    1.81    2.27     2.38 cdfhilmrstw -      es03
172.18.0.3           50          96  10    1.81    2.27     2.38 cdfhilmrstw -      es02
```
5. Now the elasticsearch API should be available via `http://localhost:9200/` and the kibana interface should be reachable via `http://localhost:5601/`

Commit message:

add a sample dataset of 100 cs.AI papers

README.md, after:

# arxiv-knowledge-repo

## Creating a sample subset

To extract only the `cs.AI` papers from the [metadata dataset on kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/Cornell-University/arxiv) we can pipe the file through `jq`
```sh
jq '. | select(.categories | contains("cs.AI")) | . ' arxiv-metadata-oai-snapshot.json > arxiv-sample.json
# get just the first 100 records
jq -s '.[:100]' arxiv-sample.json > arxiv-sample-cs-ai.json
```

## Running the elastic stack locally

The application requires an available elasticsearch and kibana. An easy way to provision this is to use `docker` with `docker-compose` with the provided `docker-compose.yml`. To get started

1. `git clone` the repository
2. Ensure `docker` and `docker-compose` are installed. It is also possible to use `podman` with the respective compose command.
```
➜  arxiv-knowledge-repo git:(main) ✗ docker -v
Docker version 20.10.7, build 20.10.7-0ubuntu5~21.04.2
➜  arxiv-knowledge-repo git:(main) ✗ docker-compose -v
docker-compose version 1.25.0, build unknown
```
3. Run `docker-compose up` from the root directory of the repository. This will provision a three node elastic cluster with kibana. For troubleshooting steps see the [Elastic Getting Started Guide with Docker](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elastic-stack-get-started/current/get-started-docker.html) and the [podman homepage](https://podman.io/)
4. Once provisioned you can use `curl` to verify the cluster is up
```
➜  arxiv-knowledge-repo git:(main) ✗ curl -X GET "localhost:9200/_cat/nodes?v&pretty"
ip         heap.percent ram.percent cpu load_1m load_5m load_15m node.role   master name
172.18.0.5           61          96  10    1.81    2.27     2.38 cdfhilmrstw *      es01
172.18.0.2           22          96  10    1.81    2.27     2.38 cdfhilmrstw -      es03
172.18.0.3           50          96  10    1.81    2.27     2.38 cdfhilmrstw -      es02
```
5. Now the elasticsearch API should be available via `http://localhost:9200/` and the kibana interface should be reachable via `http://localhost:5601/`
